* slide 30: Jesus meets “Legion”
Mark 5.9 “What is your name?” And he *said to Him, “My name is Legion; for we are many.”

1. finding out the spirit’s name enables one to take authority over a spirit
2. the man’s identity has been so taken over by the spirits that he is now “legion”
       a legion in the Roman army is 6000 men
3. This case was way too difficult and too far gone for any known Jewish religious exorcism
4. How terrible when the spirit, soul and body of man made in God’s image becomes so completely taken over that the ‘human identity’ is all but gone



* “Legion” makes a deal
1. in Luke we have the added insight that the request was “don’t send me into the abyss”
2. Legion knew the Jewish abhorrence of filthy pigs and their own affinity for like uncleanness
3. some think Legion was getting back at the pig farmers who raised them for the Romans even though they were Jews
Mark 5.10-12 And he began to implore Him earnestly not to send them out of the country. Now there was a large herd of swine feeding nearby on the mountain. The demons implored Him, saying, “Send us into the swine so that we may enter them.”

* slide 31 Jesus allows the request
Mark 5.13 Jesus gave them permission. And coming out, the unclean spirits entered the swine; and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, about two thousand of them; and they were drowned in the sea.

1. these tormented spirits were always restlessly roaming the world searching for embodiment to express themselves even if in self destruction
2. for the man there was immediate deliverance from years of torment and possession
3. for Jesus, He again plundered Satan’s realm where evil forces had claimed human ground

* slide 32: The Kingdom comes to Decapolis with a mega miracle
Mark 5.14-15 ¶ Their herdsmen ran away and reported it in the city and in the country. And the people came to see what it was that had happened. They *came to Jesus and *observed the man who had been demon-possessed sitting down, clothed and in his right mind, the very man who had had the “legion”

1. the herdsmen panicked at this loss and reported it to their bosses
2. Legion had evidently kept the local population in terror and under curfew
3. Now the man was clothed and in his right mind and could be restored to life with his family and his place in the community
4. this miracle touched the whole region but the disciples even more

* The inhumanity and selfishness of mankind
1. the immediate reaction in the region was for the citizens to be more frightened of their economic loss than happy for a tormented man’s healing
2. the Kingdom had come but been rejected by the people in the region
3. Peter goes into so much detail possibly because he saw the hard heartedness of these (possibly) backslidden Jews

* slide 36: The purpose of salvation  and healing in the kingdom of God

Mark 5.18-20 As He was getting into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed was imploring Him that he might accompany Him. And He did not let him, but He *said to him, “Go home to your people and report to them what great things the Lord has done for you, and how He had mercy on you.” And he went away and began to proclaim in Decapolis what great things Jesus had done for him; and everyone was amazed.

1. The man was truly grateful and owed his life to Jesus
2. Jesus asked him to spend his freedom declaring God’s mercy and miracles  “to your own people”
3. There could be no greater mission field than the people who knew him before and after God saves


* slide 37: RQ: why did Mark spend twenty verses on this story?
1. Mark’s gospel has 6 separate incidents of delivering unclean spirits as one of the main ministries needed in the Kingdom of God
2. this episode stands apart as extraordinary and is given through Peter in this cycle of three mega miracles to teach the disciples one ‘mega’ lesson: what is impossible with man is possible only through Christ
3. these three mega miracles in the school of Christ were there to bring the disciples to their wit’s end and to realize they must fully lean upon Jesus
4. in each episode Jesus calmly yet authoritatively claims formerly enemy territory for His Kingdom
5. this powerful testimony of Legion’s possession and damage of a man made in the image of God is a warning that demonic forces were greatly damaging mankind in the kingdoms of this world

* slide 38: Next week: Jesus returns to Galilee and the third mega miracle over the last enemy: death
